hi there welcome to survivor geek again
today I'm gonna be talking to you about
the cold steel Bushmen this is one of my
favorite survival knives it's a little
bit bigger than your standard survival
knife it's got a seven-inch blade and
most people recommend survival knives be
about 4 inches to 6 inches but I don't
think it's overly long and it's such a
functional life I just I really love it
the first great thing about I'm all cold
steel blades is that they come just very
very sharp they know how to put an edge
on these things they really do so as
you're handling this knife be very very
careful because it's gonna have a very
very sharp made itch right out of the
box I actually when I first got this I
took it out and was cutting little
saplings it was only one one swak and
they just came right apart so anyway
great knife the other thing that I love
about this knife in particular is that
they have managed to give a full tang
knife a hollow handle and I absolutely
love this because it just adds
incredibly to the utility of the knife
it gives you a little bit more storage
space but if you plug up the ends you
can put little items in there for easier
carry it allows you to put in a stick or
an extra long handle of some kind you
can throw this as a spear with that you
can use the extended handle too to help
you chop a wood a little bit better or
other things like that so it's it's just
adds a bunch of versatility to the knife
but it's a great knife just even as it
is one thing that I found was a little
bit of lacking is the handle I like to
have a little bit more grip on a knife
and so I looked up some ways and I found
out that you can actually wrap paracord
around this and it actually makes it
very very beautiful weave and just gives
it that better grip and which just makes
it pretty much the perfect survival
knife so I'm gonna go ahead and show you
how to do that we've real quick and we
are going to if you if you get the knife
from us we're gonna go ahead and include
a 12-foot length of a paracord
with every knife for you so that you can
wrap your handle like this and you can
follow these instructions so
first thing is you've got to have the
cord coming out from the top here you
can either just slide the length through
and have it just loosely hanging out at
the bottom and just hold it tight with
something while you will you do your
weave what I actually did is I actually
put a Chinese ball knot on the end a
really a big fat knot there and that
does two things number one it holds the
paracord tight for me while I'm doing my
weave and the other thing it does is it
plugs that top hole there so that all I
need to do is plug the bottom hole and
I've got some little storage space in
there so that's the way I did it so the
first step once you have the Rope coming
out of your hole here as you go ahead
and just wrap that behind the handle and
have it coming out the front here what
you want to do is you want to wait make
a little bit of a loop with it with the
remainder of the cord on the bottom of
the loop and then what you're gonna do
is you're gonna come out the other side
and you're gonna make another loop and
just pass it right through there like so
and now and that's all there is to it
that's just the pattern that you're
gonna follow is now you have another
loop and you're gonna pass the cord down
the other side and put a loop through
that loop and that's pretty much all
there is to it's a very simple weave but
it makes it look really good now a
couple of tricks with this number one
don't cut off your finger because it's a
very sharp knife like I said something
very careful with that as you're going
on this you're gonna want to pull these
very tight because otherwise it could
end up slipping over the metal there and
that just makes the grip even worse
instead of improving the grip so as you
go here you're gonna want to pull on the
top part of of your loop there to
tighten the loop behind it and I
actually recommend having a pair of
pliers on hand to make sure that you can
get that really really tight because the
tighter you get that the less slippage
you'll have and the safer your handle
and the pretty a little of two so and
just make sure that you have this always
on the bottom part of that alright so
this does take a little bit of time but
in the end it'll give you a really great
grip and then you're carrying some extra
paracord and it just makes just makes
this knife way better which it's a great
knife to begin with but great
improvements here we go
so this is the pattern you should be
having here just along the front kind of
gives you that grip there and it should
be tight enough so it doesn't it
shouldn't I mean it might sly a little
bit but it shouldn't do that too much
shouldn't be too loose you want to keep
it really tight and as you've seen I've
been just pulling on it with these these
pliers here just to try and keep it as
tight as you can
it'll be hard but it'll be worth it and
then just keep the cord might twist a
little bit here you know I get kind of a
funky look there but it shouldn't affect
the overall weave and everything as long
as you keep pulling it tight
[Applause]
you don't need to go all the way the
bottom just a little bit of space there
what you do is then you put this through
here but instead of just making another
loop just pull it all the way through
and then just pull that down tight
there you go and then you've got a
little tip sticking out there and that's
the end of it and you might want to tie
another knot there just you know make
sure it doesn't slip out at all just tie
another simple overhand knot just keep
it from sliding out at all
there you go now do you have an awesome
survival knife very comfortable grip on
it that will hold very nice so if you've
done your job right you shouldn't be
feeling any wiggling at all and you're
ready to go just remember you can get
these at our website survivor keek
survivor geek calm and we'll include the
paracord
and you can check out a lot of other
cool and innovative outdoor products
there